#summary Link to latest snapshot with change log
#labels Featured

= Important =

Snapshot builds of !MacVim are based on recent (hence untested) versions of the source code and are released fairly often.  Use these if you want access to the latest features and bug fixes but be aware that they may not behave as expected (which translates to _save often_).  That being said, if a snapshot has been released for a week or more that usually means that it is fairly stable (not to mention that I do all development using the latest snapshot).

= Download =

[http://macvim.googlecode.com/files/MacVim-snapshot-41.tbz Download snapshot 41] (released Saturday the 10th of January 2009).  It is a universal binary which runs on Mac OS X 10.4 or later.  If the download fails, please try using the [http://newmacvim.muskokamug.org/ Downloads mirror].

= Change log =

_Older change logs can be viewed by inspecting the various tags at the [http://repo.or.cz/w/MacVim.git source code repository]._

== Snapshot 41 ==

Here's the list of changes since snapshot 40:

  * The menu bar behaves better when using full-screen and switching Spaces (Nico Weber)
  * Don't switch Spaces when using "mvim" on one Space and a !MacVim window is open on another Space
  * Add user default to toggle the "add tab" button on the tabline (to disable, enter `defaults org.vim.MacVim MMShowAddTabButton 0` in Terminal)
  * Avoid the "Press ENTER..." prompt when dragging and dropping
  * Faster startup (and shutdown, but you're not likely to notice that unless you are me ;-)
  * Automatic updating works again (?)
  * Possible to interrupt external commands (e.g. you can Ctrl-C during a lenghty :grep now)
  * The output from external commands is displayed "interactively" (i.e. you don't have to wait for the command to finish before any output is drawn; try `:!ls -l /usr/lib` and compare with snap 40 to see what I mean)
  * Cmd-. sends SIGINT (so that if a Vim process is stuck you should always be able to interrupt it with Cmd-. even if Ctrl-C doesn't work)
  * Fix crashing bug: e.g. with snap 40 if you go to the src/ folder of Vim and type ":grep a `*`.c" !MacVim would crash
  * Toggle loading of default font with user default: MMLoadDefaultFont


== Snapshot 40 ==

Changes since snapshot 39:

  * Fix problems with Quickstart "leaking" Vim processes
  * 'imdisable' now on by default (i.e. IM is disabled by default)
  * Clipboard support in non-GUI mode (Kent Sibilev)
  * New document icons, more filetype associations (Nico Weber)
  * Add support for 'guitabtooltip' (hint: add the line "set gtl=%t gtt=%F" to your .gvimrc to make tabs display the name of the file and have the tooltip display the full path) (Jonathon Mah)
  * Look for toolbar icons in runtime path (plugins such as TVO now display toolbar icons properly)
  * Show dialog when clicking to close tab with modified buffers
  * Update documentation
  * Latest Vim source code and runtime files


== Snapshot 39 ==

Changes since snapshot 38:
  * Avoid "Stray process..." warning messages (Ben Schmidt)
  * Add Cmd-BS and Alt-BS insert mode mappings (Nico Weber)
  * Latest Vim patches and runtime files


== Snapshot 38 ==

Snapshot 37 had a problem with the "Login shell" option, so I've built a new snapshot containing a fix (by Ben Schmidt).

Changes since snapshot 37:
  * Dropping multiple files on a window no longer results in an error
  * Fix "Login shell" problems (Ben Schmidt)
  * Exit Vim process if connection becomes invalid -- this should avoid the system log filling up with error messages, but please let me know when it happens (and send me the output from Console.app)


== Snapshot 37 ==

Changes since snapshot 36:
  * Fix bug where Vim would crash when resizing a window with double-width characters
  * Add option 'macmeta' to use "alt/option" as meta key to allow bindings to <M-..> (see ":h 'macmeta')
  * Add basic support for !AppleScript (Jason Foreman).  E.g. to zoom a window:
{{{
      tell application MacVim
          set zoomed of first window to true
      end tell
}}}
  * Fix various bugs relating to initial window positioning 
  * Keep window is visible on ":set lines=..." and "set columns=..."
  * Inserting text from "Special Characters" palette works again
  * Remove the functionality to use a modifier key as Esc (use the PCKeyboardHack app instead, see ":h macvim-hints | /esc")
  * More help on keyboard shortcuts (":h macvim-shortcuts") and the mvim script (see ":h mvim")
  * Speed up live resize
  * Support mvim script symlinks to [m|g]ex and rmvim (see ":h mvim")
  * Tentative support for receiving input from system services (Try this: insert "2+3", select the text, then hit Cmd-Shift-8.  Result: "2+3" is replaced with "5".  Sometimes it seems you have to choose "!MacVim->Services->Script Editor->Get Result of !AppleScript" instead of pressing Cmd-Shift-8 for this to work.)
  * No more Vim zombie processes
  * Add "Reload"/"Ignore All" buttons to the file changed dialog
  * (Almost) Latest runtime files, and Vim patches


== Snapshot 36 ==

This snapshot fixes a problem with dropped characters that was introduced with snapshot 35.  Other changes since snapshot 35:

  * More help file updates
  * Fixed memory leak (Jonathon Mah)
  * Tool tips for truncated tab labels (Jonathon Mah)
  * Support drag and drop on tabs and on tabline (Jonathon Mah)
  * Modifier key can be used as Esc (useful for turning Caps Lock into Esc, see ":h macvim-esc")
  * Added "Find & Replace" dialog box (Cmd-f)



== Snapshot 35 ==

With this snapshot I have focused on making !MacVim faster, fixing bugs, and updating the documentation.  As a result !MacVim now feels snappier, flickers less, takes less time to startup from Terminal, and in some cases there are tremendous speed increases.

Here is a summary of the changes since snapshot 34:

  * Faster startup times
  * Overall faster drawing
  * Quicker response to key presses
  * Fix bug where key presses were ignored when mouse was moved simultaneously
  * Update ":h macvim" docs
  * Add mvim:// URL handler support (Nico Weber)
  * The !VimLeave autocommand works with :maca (see ":h macvim-hints")
  * Multiple files opened from Finder are sorted
  * Don't shift new windows downwards if they are vertically maximized
  * Add option to hide !MacVim when last window closes
  * The "Save changes" dialog conforms to the Apple HIG (works with Cmd-D)
  * Fix problems with 'fullscreen' and :mksession (Nico Weber)
  * Cmd-e copies selection to Find Pasteboard without searching
  * Fix bug with blurry text in full-screen with ATSUI (Jjgod Jiang)
  * Cmd-. can be used to interrupt Vim (and to exit insert mode)
  * Add "New Document Here" system service (Ron Olson)
  * Simplify system services menu (honors the "Open files..." pref)
  * Full-screen background color is updated immediately when 'fuopt' changes
  * Cursor no longer escapes the command line on Cmd-=/Cmd--
  * Add Input Manager support to ATSUI renderer (Kaoru Yoshida)
  * Use latest Vim source code and runtime files
  * Minor bug fixes


== Snapshot 34 ==

This snapshot is based on the recently released Vim 7.2 and it contains
some new features and bug fixes.  Here's a partial list:

  * More options on how new files should open (in tabs/splits/etc.): Open the preferences to check this out.
  * Quickstart: With this feature enabled new windows open instantaneously (but _not_ if you use the 'mvim' script).  It is disabled by default so go to the Advanced preferences to enable it (and be sure to read the "disclaimer"...note that any changes to ~/.vim or its subdirectories are automatically detected on Leopard).
  * The ATSUI renderer has received a few bug fixes and it now includes mouse support (it can be enabled in the Advanced prefs).  (bug fixes by Jjgod Jiang)
  * Some of the old toolbar icons have been resurrected.
  * The current directory is handled more consistently: New windows always have the user's home directory set as current.  Opening a file in the Finder results in the current directory being set to the directory the file is in (unless the file opened in a window with other files already open).
  * Windows opened from the Dock menu are in focus.
  * Menu item to toggle the Plug-in drawer (Matt Tolton).
  * Now possible to set 'linespace' in [g]vimrc.
  * Help file cleanup (Michael Wookey).
  * Problems with ptys on Leopard fixed (Ben Schmidt).
  * (Hopefully) no more annoying "dropping incoming DO message ..." warnings.
  * Scroll wheel (track pad) should behave better with fast machines (Issue 100)
  * Various bug fixes...